So how does this kind of then
translate into reality, right?
How do we take all that we've learned so
far and
start shaping that into
some kind of content?
The very first step is to create
something called a value proposition.
And a value proposition is a company's
promise to deliver a specific value or
benefit to a customer.
And an outline of how it proposes to
fulfill that promise that they're making.
So when you start off before
you write any copy at all,
you got to start off by assembling what
is the promise that I'm making here?
What is the value that I'm gonna provide?
And how am I gonna explain how
I'm going to provide that value?
So our value proposition typically breaks
down into three components really,
first of all is that how does my offering
solve a particular problem, right?
So let's say for example, I'm having a
look around trying to think of something,
so this water bottle,
this is a water bottle that I purchased,
and it solves a very particular problem.
The most water bottle don't fit into
like a laptop bag because they're
circular, right?
So the particular problem that this solves
is it will fit nicely into a laptop bag,
there you go, that's the value
proposition for this water bottle.
And people have different
problems that they come across.
Now, sometimes you need to actually
point out what the problem is,
people don't realize they've got
a problem until you tell them.
Other times they already
know what their problem is.
So again, you need to know the journey and
where people are on that journey.
So what's the problem you're solving?
And then what benefit can
people expect to get, right?
So okay, this water bottle solves the
problem but what benefit does it provide?
Well, it provides me with more space,
right?
More space in my laptop bag.
And my laptop bag is less bulky,
less awkward.
And also, obviously,
I've got water with me when I need it.
So those are the kinds of
benefits that you're getting.
So benefit is how it
improves my situation or
my life,
how it helps me overcome those problems.
And then the final aspect is why should
I choose this water bottle over one
of the competitors?
And actually in this case,
it's because the problem that it's
solving most water bottles are circular,
and so the benefit is the reason why
you will choose it over the competitor.
In other cases, it might be
a completely different reason, right?
So for example, one of the reasons that,
[LAUGH] this is embarrassing,
but one of the reasons people hire
me is for my enthusiasm, right?
So it's because I actually care about
their product and their service and
I get really into projects.
Although necessarily, I'm particularly
more knowledgeable than another person.
And I once had a client say to
me how can I say no to you Paul,
it be like kicking a puppy,
an overexcited puppy.
And that's one of the reasons people hire
me, and I kind of come to know that.
And I need to communicate that through the
things that I do, it's part of my value
proposition, I guess, I've never thought
of it like that, but I guess it is.
So yeah, how do you go about
creating this value proposition?
How do you think about it?
Well, actually, if you've ever
done any kind of user research or
you've got any experience
in user experience design.
Then actually the kind of answers
are almost sitting there in front of you.
And then there's this thing
called a value proposition or
Value Proposition Canvas, and
it's just a methodology for
that I've kind of just outlined really,
and it consists of three parts.
What pains are you addressing?
What gains are you creating?
And what features are you providing,
all right?
And in actual fact,
if you've done any news or research and
if you've got half decent persona, you
kind of already know the answer to that.
Cuz your persona will tell you what
pain points people are experiencing.
It will tell you what goals that
they're trying to achieve, and
it will tell you what kind of tasks
that you need to do it, right?
So let's take an example,
let's take a middle aged mom, right?
A middle aged mom,
one of the pain points she might be
experiencing is that she's always tired,
right?
One of the goals that she
might have is to lose
the weight that she gained
during pregnancy, okay?
And so her tasks then are to
do exercise and eat healthily.
So if we've got, say, a fitness app,
we can target it at moms
in that way by talking about
the those pain points, right?
And that goal and those tasks,
yet, that same fitness tracker or
fitness app could be able to teenage boys,
right?
And exactly the same functionality in
the app but how the value proposition
would then be very different, so what
pain points do teenage boys experience?
Well, it might be that they feel skinny,
right?
And so they wanna get a bit buffer.
And their goal might be to
attract a partner, right?
They wanna be sexy.
And so the tasks that they need to do
again are fitness, same tasks, right?
But look at how different that would
make the way that you wrote it and
produce content and
even how you designed it, right?
One of the things you often see on
fitness apps, which always confuses me
on fitness sites is that there's lots
of beautiful perfect people, right?
Who are super jacked and
fit and all of it.
And yeah, that's creating
an aspiration that people wanna reach,
but that aspiration is often so
out of reach that actually
alienates people of doing the app.
So if you were aiming at teenagers,
you would show pictures of teenage
lads looking fairly fit and attracting
attention from their desired partners.
If you're aiming at middle aged mom's
you'd see healthy fit middle aged
mom playing with their kids, you don't
suddenly show some gym fit bodybuilder.
So this is how we can start building
up a picture of our value proposition,
by thinking about our
audience who they are,
what they wanna achieve,
what their goals are.
And either even affect
not only your imagery,
not only your content but
the tone of voice that you adopt.
For example, in America thing
is called Axe body spray and
that kinda thing,
in the UK it's called Lynx.
And they know their audience so well,
and if you read the back of one
of their shower gels, okay?
Normally, they talk about
things like uses aloe-vera,
if you're looking at another a shower gel.
But because these guys are aiming at
teenage boys, it talks about cactus
milk and it talks about smelling great for
girls and that kind of stuff.
They very much built it around that
audience using their language,
their terminology in that kind of stuff.
Now, I know all of this sounds like
kind of evil marketing talk here.
But actually it kinda matters because it's
about making connections with people.
It's about communicating in a way, in
a language that your audience understands.
And we'll come on to that in
more specific detail later, and
how a failure to do that
can be quite problematic.
But for now, let's talk about how to
communicate your value proposition
specifically online, okay?
So you've got this kind of idea of
what the benefits are of your product,
what the features are of your product.
You kind of know who it's saying that,
what problem it's enabling
them to overcome, etc.
Now, we need to turn that into something
that we can put on our website.
And basically there are three sections
that every good landing page,
homepage, whatever should have.
The first is your strap line,
the second is your benefits, and
the third is how you
deliver on those benefits.
So often that would be features of some
description features of your service,
your product, whatever else.
So that's what you're gonna do,
once you've got idea of what your value
proposition, the first thing you're doing
is writing these three things, right?
So let's start with your strapline.
Strapline are really hard to write,
they're probably the hardest thing to
do and there are a lot of
rubbish straplines out there.
Cuz what your strapline needs to do
ideally is it needs to say what the thing
is, right?
Is it a course?
Is it a workshop?
Is it a have a SaaS product?
Is it a app?
Whatever it is.
And also emphasize some
kind of benefit that
thing is gonna provide, right?
So actually, this is a strapline
I initially produced for
one of my courses, right?
And the worries about
around finding new clients,
which is great in terms of
identifying a pain point and
a goal, but
it's really rubbish at saying what it is.
Is it a book?
Is it a course?
Is it a live event?
Or is it a pre-recorded thing?
What is it?
So actually, here was another one
that I love which was a strapline,
well, I didn't love it, it was terrible.
The strapline of speak to your
loved ones this Valentine's, right?
Cuz it was around the Valentine's Day.
Now, if you didn't know,
that could have been anything,
it could have been a dating app.
It could have been a social media channel.
It could have been sending
cards to loved ones.
It could have been anything.
It didn't summarize what it was,
it was actually on Skype, all right?
We wouldn't necessarily have
got that from the Strapline.
So Strapline needs to be descriptive as
well as touching on the benefit that it
provides.
So you need to brainstorm different ideas,
come up with lots of different ones.
You don't need to get it perfect
because probably your client or
stakeholder is gonna
interfere in it anyway.
But you can at least teach them that
it should have these components in.
And then also, of course,
you can do AB testing on different ones to
see what works the best and what doesn't.
After straplines,
then you wanna get into your benefits.
So to start with,
just write yourself a bullet point list.
How does this product service,
actually, help people, right?
So this particular course, which is about
finding clients if you run an agency.
You're less likely to run out of work,
you're gonna win the kinds of clients you
want and
you can increase what you charge, right?
Those are the kinds of
benefits that it provides.
But anything has got its benefits to it,
so
make a bullet point list
of what those are, right?
So you've got a strapline,
which summarizes everything
at the highest level.
You've got a set of benefits.
And then finally if you
want your features, right?
How are you gonna deliver on those
promises you're making with the benefits.
So with a course,
it'd be something like a lesson plan, but
other things it might be some
functionality of your app or
the way that a service is delivered or
whatever else.
So there are value propositions
that you need to create,
which consists of your strapline,
your benefits, and your features.
But there are other areas that
you need to consider as well.
For example, there are the objections
I talked about earlier.
So this is a more recent version of the
same call to action I showed you earlier
for my newsletter signup.
And I list in there the benefits,
you've got a strapline,
which is to improve your knowledge
of user experience design,
digital, marketing, and
digital leadership.
Then I touch on who it's for
because that was another thing
that was missing previously.
I also give people a list of some recent
newsletters that they can check out for
themselves to see if
the content is relevant.
Then there's the things
that I had previously.
Things I can unsubscribe in one click,
that I'm not gonna sell your email address
to anybody else or that kind of thing.
So along side we've got a bullet point
list of benefits that we've created,
we've got a bullet point list of features,
and we've got a strapline.
We'll also need a bullet point list
of objections people might have and
ideas for how you could address those.
What could you say to
reassure people in that.
And once you've got all of those
components together those four components,
now you're ready to start
creating your copy.